Prague Stock Market falls to minus by the end of the trading day
After a sharp drop in the morning, the Prague Stock Market corrected its losses.
Transactions with stocks from the Czech Energy Enterprise (ČEZ) reached nearly half of the regular daily trading.
The Prague Stock Market immediately continued its fall from Monday at the beginning of Tuesday's trading, when it dropped by nearly six percent.
This time the fall in stocks on Wall Street is responsible for the drop.
The reaction of the market to the results of the vote in the American House of Representatives, which refused to support the plan for the stabilization of the financial sector there, has manifested itself here as well.
Stocks fall in Asia
Stocks in the Asian markets experienced a dramatic drop on Tuesday, even though the indexes ultimately erased a part of the losses during the day.
The Hang Seng Index of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange wrote off nearly four percent during the day, but later it erased a part of the losses and reduced the decrease to roughly 2.5 percent.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which follows the movement of Chinese stocks on the stock market in Hong Kong, dropped by 3.8 percent, in Shanghai the markets were closed.
Stocks on the market in Sydney lost more than five percent, but ultimately lowered their losses to 4.3 percent.
The stock exchange in Taiwan dropped by 3.6 percent according to the local index.
"The timing of the bailout action in the USA is uncertain and it will influence financial markets all over the world," remarked the head of the Hong Kong Currency Board, Joseph Yam.
Despite the fact that it is a part of China, Hong Kong determines its currency policy separately, that is, without being dependent on the Chinese Central Bank.
Hong Kong has interest rates at the same level as the United States.
American legislators should quickly return to their negotiations and approve the bill to support the financial system, according to Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.
Otherwise there reputedly looms the threat that other countries will also feel the impacts.
American stock bloodbath
On Monday the American House of Representatives rejected the plan to support the financial system, into which up to 700 billion dollars (nearly 12 billion Czech crowns) was to be invested.
The legislators thus ignored President George Bush's appeal for them to support the plan.
According to Bush, the plan would tackle the basic causes of the financial crisis and help stabilize the entire economy.
American stocks suffered a bloodbath on Monday and the major stock indexes registered their greatest fall in more than 20 years.
The Dow Jones Index dropped by nearly seven percent, having registered a similarly-ranged fall the last time in 1987.
The index had dropped even prior to the vote, but as soon as it was revealed that the bill had not passed in the House, the index went into free fall.
Congress yields: US government can pump 700 billion dollars into banks
The top representatives of the American Congress and George W. Bush's cabinet have agreed upon a broader form of the agreement on financial assistance for the American financial system.
The vote on it will take place at the beginning of next week.
American legislators made a breakthrough in their talks about the approval of a bailout plan in the form of financial assistance for the American financial system amounting to 700 billion dollars (approximately 12 billion crowns).
But all is not won yet.
That is, the members of congress have to complete some details of the agreement before they can make the final version of the law public and vote on it.
The plan to support the financial system will be discussed in the House of Representatives on Monday.
The chair of the Financial Services Committee, Barney Frank, told Reuters this on Sunday.
Sources say that the senate could evidently vote on the plan on Wednesday at the soonest.
Economists say that the announcement that the bailout plan will be approved should be the first psychological factor significant to the revival of financial markets.
Afterward, however, a "sobering up" will take place due to the complicated nature of the mechanisms with which assistance to the markets can be achieved in practice.
Paulson: Plan must be effective
"We've made great progress.
We've resolved our differing opinions on how the package for the stabilization of markets should look," Democrat Nancy Pelosi told Bloomberg.
According to her, the final vote could take place as early as Sunday.
Representatives of the legislators met with American Finance Minister Henry Paulson Saturday night in order to give the government fund a final form.
The fund is meant to purchase unsellable mortgage assets which are pulling financial companies down into heavy losses and are endangering the stability of the entire system.
"We're on the edge of a definitive agreement on a plan which will function and which also must be effective on the market.
It's necessary to continue in the curative plan, but I think we're there," Paulson said.
A signal for Asian trading
The global financial crisis is significantly impacting the stock markets, which are dropping sharply.
According to Nevada Democratic senator Harry Reid, that is how that legislators are trying to have Congress to reach a definitive agreement as early as on Sunday.
Namely, by doing this they want to calm investors prior to trading on the Asian financial markets, which, given their time zones, are the first ones where the decision by Congress could influence Monday's trading.
In the meantime, however, it is not yet clear with any certainty when both chambers of the American Congress will vote on the bill, nor whether the negotiations will not become hindered by some problem.
The legislators hope that it will be approved in the next few days.
However, the bill will still go through a series of changes.
The total amount designated for assistance to the system is to be divided into two parts.
The initial 350 billion dollars is to become available as soon as possible, as requested by president George Bush.
But Congress can block the release of the remaining amount, in the sequence of a further 100 billion dollars and later, the final 350 billion dollars, if it has the impression that the program is not fulfilling its function.
Bush appreciates progress in negotiations
Though the president can veto this decision, Congress can override his veto.
Even in spite of these changes, the essential idea of the program, to gain finances for the buyout of bad mortgage stocks, the value of which had dropped because hundreds of thousands of Americans were unable to pay off their mortgages, has remained intact.
"We've drawn it all up.
The House of Representatives should be able to vote on the bill on Sunday and the Senate on Monday," said Republican senator Judd Gregg.
Even American president Bush is satisfied with the progress in negotiations.
His speaker Tony Fratto declared that Bush was satisfied with Saturday's progress and appreciated the "two-party effort to stabilize our financial markets and save our economy".
Constraining golden parachutes
The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, Christopher Dodd, the chief negotiator, said that the legislators had agreed upon the responsibilities for the financial program, protection of the taxpayers against losses, closing of relief packages, and timing of the financial plan.
The new law is also meant to constrain the "golden parachutes" for the heads of the companies participating in the program and establishes a committee which will oversee the fund.
The committee is to be directed by the Ministry of Finance.
"We've worked very hard on this and we've made great progress toward an agreement that will work and that will be useful for all Americans," Paulson said.
The plan also includes assistance to homeowners who have problems making their payments.
The cabinet should negotiate new payments for the mortgages it buys, with the aim of lowering the monthly payment costs for those in debt and enabling them to keep their houses.
Marek: Psychological help
According to the chief economist of Patria Finance, David Marek, the proposed plan is a good idea, but its realization will be very difficult.
"And this is because it is not known through what mechanism and for what price the problematic assets will be bought.
This will determine how the financial sector and the cabinet will divide the losses amongst themselves," Marek told the server iHNed.cz this week.
Whether the plan is approved now or at the beginning of next week is not so significant, according to Marek.
"More important is for the members of congress to agree this week to support the plan and to approve it as soon as possible.
The psychological significance of the agreement that the approval will take place is the most important thing at this time," Marek emphasized.
Razor's edge battle: MP3 players vs. cell phones.
Our advice on how to choose
While nearly every cell phone can play MP3 files, no MP3 player can make phone calls.
This makes it seem clear that it is better to only buy a phone.
In spite of this, there are many reasons to get a separate MP3 player.
The choice depends entirely on the manner of use and demands of the future owner.
It is not likely that you will get a top-of-the-line expensive record player in order to listen to the newest album by Maxim Turbulenc.
First of all such music products not available on LPs, but also, from the qualitative point of view there no objective reason for it.
However, if your shelves are crowded with art rock, jazz, or blues vinyl records, you are likely at least dreaming of a record player like that.
It's the same with music on trips, that is, compressed music, simply put, MP3 music.
There are price and qualitative categories here as well.
For some, it can be unacceptable to spend eight thousand crowns on an MP3 player, just as it is hard for Pink Floyd fan to accept twenty-crown headphones from a market hall.
Two extremes, between which there is enough space for everyone.
The selection is broad.
Battery life also decides
Some top-of-the-line music players can do much more than merely play music, but also what most cell phones can't even do by chance.
No contemporary machine is as universal as the telephone.
In addition to the primary functions, calling and texting, it can play music and video, record both, contains a camera which is sometimes better and sometimes worse and can even navigate in some cases.
And when we take smart phones and communication devices, you have a small computer in your pocket.
It's a small miracle, as there is no refrigerator that knows how to grill and no television can take pictures.
The universal nature of the cell phone also brings disadvantages.
The more functions you use on your cell phone, the sooner the indicator on your display will send you running for the charger.
And playing music is one of the biggest energy guzzlers.
Very few cell phones can play music for longer than ten to twelve hours, most of them much less.
In this way, music players (particularly the simplest ones) are much more efficient.
Which is why you should count on the fact that inexpensive cell phones will not play for more than a few hours.
If you occasionally make calls in addition to that, to be on the safe side, get another charger for your workplace - even for more expensive devices.
You won't have this problem with MP3 players, even worse ones last at least 9 straight hours running on one charge.
Another problem arises when recording music on the cell phone.
Unfortunately, only a limited percentage of the devices contain a universal USB connector, and on top of that, not every one of those can be directly connected to a computer without special software.
Of course, music can be recorded directly onto a memory card, but very few card readers can handle the miniature memory cards used in the cell phones without an adaptor.
For the music players, with some exceptions (iPod), you don't need any special software.
It's enough to fill the device with music using the USB from the computer.
Most cell phones and music players already create a music library by themselves, organized according to the artist's name, album title, genre, or, e.g., user rating.
Some devices only display the tree structure of the directory, similar to Windows Explorer and some are able to do both (iriver, Samsung, Sony, Cowon, smart phones with an operating systems).
Music players easier to service, cell phones can do more
In choosing specific equipment, you should be interested above all in the life of the battery, the capacity of the memory, the quality and type of the audio output, and of course also the user-friendly nature of the operation.
If music is above all a background setting for you and if you are only going to listen to it for a little while, perhaps in the tram, any cell phone which plays MP3 is enough.
Which almost any cell phone is truly able to do.
You don't even have to pay too much attention to which music formats the cell phone or music player can handle.
The MP3 can handle all of them, and in fact, most of the music you will get will be in this very format.
It one of the most widespread formats and in addition to it, the absolute majority of devices can also handle music in WMA format.
Less common is the appearance of AAC (the format used by the Apple company and its iPods).
Better cell phones, at the same time, enable the purchase of music on-line.
All you have to do to buy a song or album is visit the pages of the given operator (or another provider) using mobile Internet.
This service by itself could be a substantial reason for obtaining a music cell phone.
Unfortunately the offerings from the operators are paltry and are usually limited to fast-growing radio hits.
The prices are also not among the lowest.
It is generally assumed, however, that this very manner of music sales (whether using GSM, the Internet or wireless Internet) will take over the music industry in the future.
Most people have their cell phone on them at all times.
Whenever you feel like listening to something, you can reach for your cell phone in your pocket, while the MP3 player lies at home, forgotten.
However, it still depends on whether you always have headphones or at least the wire hands-free with you.
If not, you can utilize the integrated speaker that is in almost all cell phones, but only in a minimum of MP3 players.
But the greatest advantage of the music cell phones for many people is the price.
The least expensive of them regularly cost less than three thousand crowns.
For three or four thousand crowns, you can get a very decent walkman.
Usually, however, you'll be limited by the absence of output on ordinary headphones.
The best and most technically well-equipped telephones, with a 3.5 mm jack for ordinary headphones, cost up to fifteen thousand crowns.
The advantage of the music players, on the other hand, is, among other reasons, that they are easy to operate.
Anyone can handle the operation of the simplest - not necessarily the most inexpensive (see our selection) - music players.
The minimum of functions and similarity in operation to the formerly common cassette recorder or even the record player is apparent.
There is no threat of a clash in the form of mobile Internet turned on by accident and the resulting enormous bill for data transmission.
What device to reach for
Even the least expensive cell phones (e.g. Vodafone 527) generally have a slot for replaceable memory cards (of the type M2, microSD and the like).
Even with the additional purchase of the respective card, you will spend less than two thousand crowns.
Be careful, however.
With the basic models, only cards with a maximum capacity of 2 GB tend to be supported.
Only the most expensive ones can also handle 8 GB memory cards.
If you already have a cell phone and want to buy an inexpensive MP3 player, reach for Cowon, Creativ, Sony, Samsung, Emgeton or iriver.
Based on capacity (maximum 2 GB) you don't have to spend more than 1,100 crowns.
If you are a more demanding listener, reach instead for specialized cell phones - walkman (Sony Ericsson, some Nokia and Samsung models).
These devices have separate control buttons for MP3 and the user-friendly nature of their operation is close to that of a separate MP3 player.
Sony Ericsson, whose cell phones from the walkman series have the same user interface as the MP3 players sold separately, is the most advanced in the field.
The MP3 players from the brands mentioned above deliver the same service and in the same price category up to four thousand crowns, but with a greater memory capacity (up to 16 GB) and battery endurance (normally 15 hours, maximally up to 35 hours).
First virtual operator to arrive in Czechia this year.
Maybe
The mobile market in Czechia is quite advanced and local operators offer practically all the same services as their partners in Western Europe.
In spite of this, there is something missing here - a virtual operator who would force the classic operators to lower their prices.
It might be missing for a long time.
We have already written many times on Mobil.cz about the fact that Czech operators are among the most expensive in Europe.
This has also been confirmed by the Czech Telecommunications Bureau, who called attention to the fact that the price of a text message is higher here than in the rest of the Union.
Following the most recent steps taken by the European Commission in the field of regulation of the roaming fees, a paradoxical situation may occur - text messages for some customers of Czech mobile operators will be cheaper from abroad than at home.
How is it possible that the prices in Czechia remain so high in comparison with Europe?
The answer is simple, there is a lack of competitors who would really like to enter into battle.
Perhaps it sounds paradoxical, after all, we have three mobile networks here and over 100% coverage.
Mobile operators, on the other hand, like to pretend that the Czech market is extremely competitive.
This is often seconded by the chairman of the Council of the Czech Telecommunications Bureau (CTB) Pavel Dvořák, who in the past has claimed several times that there is no room for another operator in Czechia.
It is probably true that a classical operator with its own network no longer has much chance (for that matter, it would be very difficult to find frequencies).
But there is one more opportunity - a virtual operator.
It is precisely the entrance of the virtual operators on the mobile market that brought the significant lowering of prices, to which even the classic operators had to react.
At the same time, even before the entrance on the market of aggressive competitors such as Tesco Mobile or Virgin Mobile, voices similar to those here could be heard.
But it has turned out that there is a place for such operators and they can be truly successful.
For that matter, we don't have to go far to find examples.
In February of this year, we informed you of the start of the virtual operator Mobilking in Poland.
Over the course of merely half a year, this operator was able to gain more than 100 thousand customers and become the fifth largest operator.
At the same time, the financial group Penta, which owns, among others, U:fon, stands behind Mobilking.
The advantage of the virtual operators is the opportunity to concentrate on a much more specific target group.
In order to function effectively, they require many fewer customers than a classic operator does.
That is, they do not carry the relatively high costs of construction, operation and maintenance of a mobile network.
In this way, virtual operators around the world usually profile themselves as low-cost - they offer inexpensive calling and text messages, which is often balanced out by a more limited offer of services, though.
That's how, for example, Tesco Mobile in Great Britain can offer text messaging for at least fifty percent less than its competitors.
But as the example of Mobilking in Poland shows, it can be a rather good move and a bet on a novel target group.
That is, this operator is specifically oriented toward men.
"Real men choose Mobilking - the operator that they like and can trust," says David Seibert, the CEO of Mobile Entertainment Company, which runs this virtual operator.
It is hard to say if a concept similar to the one in Poland could catch on here.
Miroslav Čepický, spokesman for Vodafone, doubts this: "The Czech market is relatively small for the segmented approach on which most virtual operators are founded.
In addition, it's relatively saturated from the perspective of the offer of services."
No chance in Czechia, say mobile operators
It seems almost certain that if there is to be a virtual operator in Czechia, it won't be Mobilking.
"We have been talking about the expansion of this successful project, but the negotiations in Czechia don't look very hopeful.
More likely, Mobilking will be launched in other countries in our region," said Jana Studničková, speaker for the Penta financial group, in a telephone interview for Mobil.cz.
She also confirmed indirectly that the current mobile operators in Czechia are definitely not inclined toward this idea.
Rather, on the contrary, they are trying to do everything they can so that no potential competitor comes into existence.
For a longer period of time now, the GTS Novera group has made no secret of its interest in launching a virtual mobile operator, and in this way it would like to take another step in the direction of becoming a real competitor of Telefonica O2 in the area of corporate clientele.
"We are very interested in being able to offer our customers not only hardwire telecommunication services, but also mobile ones.
The sooner, the better.
We have held repeated negotiations on this possibility with all Czech mobile operators.
We have already been able to make progress in the negotiations with some of them," said the group's spokesman, Pavel Kaidl.
Perhaps there are better times ahead.
On the basis of unofficial information, it looks like we can expect the first virtual operator as early as the end of this year.
In the meantime, however, its creation is accompanied by a wall of silence.
"At this time, we do not think that there is space for the creation of a full-fledged virtual operator.
Compared to other markets, the Czech market is very specific.
No subject has approached us thus far with a complex and serious project in this area," claimed Vlastimil Sršeň from the public relations department of Telefonica 02 in a statement for Mobil.cz.
Other operators also refer to the specific nature of the Czech market.
In a rare shared opinion with a statement by O2, T-Mobile spokeswoman Martina Kemrová added: "We have not yet registered a viable and bilaterally advantageous business project that it would be possible to build upon."
And she added: "No virtual operator is likely to appear in the T-Mobile network by the end of the year.
At this moment, in order to be talking about such a short timeframe, we would already have to have a concrete agreement on the table."
Vodafone is placing its attention more upon fulfilling the requirements of its own 3G license.
Regarding this, Miroslav Čepický said: "We are open to negotiations with potential virtual operators, above all in the area of shared costs and infrastructure.
From the perspective of the customers, we consider this to be the most beneficial.
Vodafone's main strategy in this area is to find a partner for the construction of a shared network for fast mobile Internet."
Responsible authorities - buddy-buddy with operators
The procedure of the mobile operators is easy to understand, the entrance of another operator would mean increased competition, it would lead to a decrease in prices and hence to a decrease in their profits.
Why, then, make this entrance easy for such a competitor?
The tug-of-war surrounding the creation of U:fon attests to the fact that when something is important to the operators, they are able to pull for the same team.
Probably the greatest pressure on the Czech Telecommunication Office was during the time of the creation of U:fon by T-Mobile.
Information publicly available from the Czech Telecommunication Office's web pages attests to this.
But now this is a suitable argument for U:fon to not allow the entrance of the virtual operator.
Regarding that matter, Martina Kemrová pointed out: "The competitive environment of the mobile market was also recently amplified by the entrance of the fourth mobile operator onto the market.
Considering the character of the mobile market in the Czech Republic, it is evident that the entrance of another player would place higher demands on it and above all on its services."
But considering this approach by the mobile operators, the lack of interest by the Czech regulatory organs is, in fact, startling.
This means not only the attitude of the CTO, which unfortunately in Czechia - unlike in Great Britain and other developed countries - does not have the authority to intervene in economic competition.
This authority belongs to the Office for the Protection of Competition (OPC) exclusively.
But this office has assumed its typical position on this whole issue.
"The entrance of a virtual operator on the mobile market would be possible after the signing of a contract on the rental of the necessary infrastructure between the mobile operator and the virtual operator.
No such contract has ever been signed, because the supply of potential interested parties was most likely not sufficiently interesting for classic operators," claimed Kristián Chalupa from the external relations department of the OPC in his answer to our question.
A statement formulated in that way by representatives of the operators probably won't surprise anyone.
From the office that is supposed to represent the interests of consumers and, among other things, make sure that no one abuses his/her position on the market, it is more than serious.
All the more so when Kristián Chalupa added: "In other countries, where virtual operators commonly function, we can observe that their entrance on the market contributed to the decrease in the prices of mobile telephone services."
But evidently the pressure on the proper functioning of the market environment and the decrease in prices are not among the interests of the OPC.
In truth, the shocking element of the whole case is the almost fluid harmony between the three mobile operators that is implicit in their reactions.
The question as to whether this is really just a coincidence arises entirely by itself.
Just like the exact same price of gasoline at the gas stations is surely just the product of coincidence and the tough competitive battle.
"The Office did not find any signs of actions violating the rules of competition, and thus has no reason to intervene in any way.
None of the operators have a dominant position, and hence none of them have the corresponding increased responsibility for their actions on the market.
The telecommunications regulator is most likely also lacking the instruments necessary to open the mobile market for the virtual operators," Chalupa claimed in his statement.
The interpretation of the dominant position on the market is one of the disputed points.
Of course, an analysis of the relevant markets does exist, conducted by CTO, according to which telecommunications are, from the perspective of competition, the only market.
On such a market, none of the Czech operators then have a dominant position.
But some legal experts offer a different perspective - in order to create a virtual operator, it is always necessary to gain the permission of the network operator.
And the mobile operator - entirely logically - has a monopoly on its network.
So in a certain segment, it must necessarily be dominant.
But even if we did not consider this argument, for the OPC it could be at least alarming that the three mobile operators are proceeding in a strikingly similar manner.
At the same time, complaints from a series of interested parties (including the GTS Novera company mentioned above) demonstrate that they are encountering very similar hurdles in their negotiations with all the operators.
Placing the responsibility on the CTO is a rather common trick in telecommunications, through which the OPC can have nothing to do with the whole matter.
We have already encountered it in several similar cases.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to establish the extension of the CTO's authority to the area of competition in telecommunications in the recently approved amendment to the Telecommunications Act, even though many experts had expected that this would improve the situation.
The representatives of the OPC must know this very well, but their interests are evidently elsewhere.
It can be done when nobody's looking
At the same time, the functioning of some pseudo-virtual operators, of which there are already several in Czech mobile networks, remains unnoticed.
These are companies which publish their own price lists for mobile telephone services, which are only partially public.
These are usually companies dealing with multilevel marketing.
For example, Amway, Bohemia Telecom, Starlife and a number of others offer their own mobile telephone services.
The price lists of these companies usually only reach selected individuals.
The trick lies in the fact that, in relation to the operator, the company acts like a classic company client who orders a great amount of SIM cards.
As a significant client, it then gets special price offers (and other types of offers).
The problem is that the trading conditions of all Czech mobile operators prohibit such advance sales.
"If the cases you are talking about were to occur, this could be a violation of the contract conditions, which we would investigate, and it could culminate in the termination of our cooperation with the given company," Martina Kemrová answered our question on this problem.
But it is highly unlikely that activities like this would not be reported to the responsible people from the mobile operators.
This could be a question of thousands of customers, above all in the case of the three companies mentioned above.
But at the same time, none of the operators are opposed to such a procedure.
Namely, they make considerable profits from the activities of these companies and at the same time - unlike the real virtual operators - they do not present any sort of threat to them through their own official marketing.
Miroslav Čepický draws attention to potential problems: "The law enables such speculation, nevertheless only an insignificant percentage of customers use the services of these companies.
On top of that, they must accept that the SIM card in their telephone is not registered under their name, and thus they cannot use all of its features like the regular customers of the mobile operators can."
This is precisely what should seem at least strange to the CTO.
In addition, another question for the OPC arises.
If the mobile operators are looking the other way concerning this procedure, why are they blocking the creation of a virtual operator?
It must be added that the OPC has rather considerable power to uncover such activities, and if it does not wish to, it does not have to be satisfied with operators' claims that they have no idea about any such thing and that their trading conditions prohibit it.
When we won't be the most expensive
As mentioned already several times in this article, the entrance of the virtual operators onto the mobile market was brought about by a notable drop in the prices of services.
At the same time, classical operators have more or less tried to prevent the creation of virtual operators practically in all countries where they have been created.
The arguments they used were practically identical - a market that was too small, too saturated, problems with the quality of services, etc.
But in developed countries, the regulatory organs, which supported the interests not of the mobile operators, but of their customers, intervened at that very moment.
Either through formal measures or informal pressure, they then achieved the creation of the first virtual operator, and others continued in its footsteps.
Unfortunately, the Czech regulatory organs have been tossing the whole case back and forth like a hot potato.
Based on our experience, we cannot get rid of the impression that the lack of clarity in competencies in these cases suits them very well.
But let's not throw in the towel.
If the behind-the-scenes information are correct and a virtual operator appears here soon, the Czech mobile market might be set in motion once again.
If one of the operators permits the creation of a virtual mobile operator, it will be difficult for OPC to be able to remain indifferent to the refusal (discrimination) of further interested parties.
And we might stop making calls that are more expensive than in the rest of Europe.
New Czech national anthem has four new versions.
Choose the best one
Listen to the four renderings of the new version of the Czech national anthem.
On Sunday Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek presented the new recordings of the national anthem Kde domov můj (Where is my Country) on the occasion of the Day of Czech Statehood.
The anthem was newly recorded by the National Theater Orchestra under the direction of Jiří Bělohlávek.
Four versions are available - versions with male or female solo vocals, a choral version and an instrumental version.
Kateřina Kněžínková and Adam Plachetka did the singing.
The authors of the arrangements of the anthem are Otakar Jeremiáš and Jaroslav Krček.
You can listen to all four versions on the server iHNed.cz.
Bělohlávek considers the Czech national song to be one of the most beautiful national anthems.
He told Czech Radio earlier that he had intentionally selected singers with young, representative voices that were striking and popular for the solo variants.
"From the beginning, with both of them and also with the chorus, I tried to make sure that they had clear articulation, so that the text could be understood well, so that they were in harmony," he said.
The Czech national anthem will celebrate its 175th anniversary next year.
The song Kde domov můj (Where is my Country) was heard for the first time in 1834 on the stage of the Estates Theater in the original Czech play Fidlovačka by Josef Kajetán Tyl with the music of František Škroup.
It gained popularity and the people spontaneously took it as their own.
The first stanza of the song then became a natural part of the national anthem following the creation of Czechoslovakia in 1918.
It remained one of the seven state symbols even following the creation of the independent Czech Republic.
How the "new" hymn sounds
Prague City Mass Transport to operate on chip for the first time on Wednesday
Wednesday, October 1, 2008 will be written into the history of the Prague Transport Company as the date when the first travellers board the metro, trams and buses with an electronic coupon in their pockets instead of a paper ticket.
The roughly one hundred thousand people in possession of their own chip card Opencard at this time can get this coupon.
Travellers can buy a 30-day, 90-day and year-long coupon (which will be valid beginning on January 1, 2009) and at the same time have it added to their chip card at info centers and branches of the Transport Company at the metro stations Muzeum, Můstek, Nádraží Holešovice, Anděl, Roztyly, Letňany, Kobylisy, Rajská zahrada, Kačerov and Luka.
Beginning yesterday, coupons can also be purchased over the Internet on the web pages of the Transport Company, www.dpp.cz.
By the afternoon, more than four hundred customers had used the service.
Those beginning to use Internet shopping can definitively forget about the vending windows in the metro stations, where up to now they have had to regularly stand in long lines for paper tickets.
That is, they can buy the coupon over the Internet and it will be added to the Opencard at one of the thirteen branches of the City Library.
"At these locations, there is a counter available for travellers with trained staff who will help interested people with their Internet purchase, and will also add the purchased coupon to their card," said the project's speaker, Martin Opatrný.
In addition to libraries, it will also be possible to add the electronic coupons to the Opencard at the self-service machines which have been set up in several vestibules of the metro.
What do these self-service machines look like?
They are red, resembling ticket validation machines, and travellers might have already noticed them in the metro stations Roztyly, Budějovická, I. P. Pavlova, Florenc and Vltavská.
"Now there are five of them in the city, but by the end of the year there should be eighty of them," Opatrný added.
Coupon checked by self-service machine instead of driver
Using the self-service machines, which will begin functioning tomorrow, is simple.
All you have to do is insert the Opencard chip card, and the pre-paid card is automatically added to it.
The electronic coupons are valid beginning tomorrow not only in the capital city, but in its surroundings as well.
That is, in suburban trains and bus lines numbered 300 to 499, which are mainly used by inhabitants of Central Bohemian towns to travel into the capital city.
"In trains included in Prague Integrated Transport, the conductors are equipped with card readers, with the help of which they can check the time and zone validity of the coupons," Filip Drápal from the organization Ropid, which creates the timetables of the Prague Mass Transport, explained the ticket-checking procedures.
The suburban buses have card readers built into the cash register next to the driver's seat.
Upon boarding, it is thus necessary to not only show the chip card to the driver, but in addition it is necessary to place the Opencard on the designated spot on the side of the cash register.
This is how the driver checks the validity of the coupons recorded.
"If the traveller needs to confirm the validity of the coupons recorded, there is nothing easier than requesting this information from the driver," Drápal added.
Travelers who do not use suburban buses, and will not remember when the validity of a coupon ends, can head again for the self-service machines where the coupons are added to the card.
Here the information on the validity of their documents will appear on the machine's screen.
Sudetenlands wanted referendum from USA
Sudeten Germans requested that the Šumava region be incorporated into the United States in 1945.
This is implicit in a letter stored in the collections of the South Bohemia Research Library.
If we cannot be a part of Germany or Austria, we wish at least to live under the patronage of the United States.
Several groups of Sudeten Germans supposedly addressed the president of the USA with a wish of this type.
This arises from, among other things, a letter which has been preserved in a private archive and is now stored in the collections of the South Bohemia Research Library.
In the letter, Germans from Český Krumlov request that the American president not to allow the return of the "Šumava region" - occupied by Hitler on the basis of the Munich Agreement - to Czechoslovakia.
"We have understood the situation correctly and we want to be truly certain of the words that the American troops are entering German territory not as oppressors and enemies, but rather, as liberators," is what is written in the letter, signed "People who are not indifferent to the fate of Šumava".
Since the annexation by Czechoslovakia supposedly only gives the Sudeten Germans hope for - knowing the Czech national character - brutality, disregard, lack of understanding, oppression and slavery, the authors of the letter ask the American president to take over the protectorate of Šumava forever.
"We cannot believe that without considering the opinion of a quarter of a million people, you would award this territory to a state foreign to us, which oppresses and oppugns minorities and which has contributed nothing, absolutely nothing, to the victory of the Allies," is written in the letter.
The reason why the authors could not sign their names was the supposed fear of revenge by the "Czech oppressors".
If the president of the USA were to supposedly have doubts about the persuasion of the Šumava Germans, it would be enough to organize a referendum in the Šumava region on whether its inhabitants want to become a part of the USA or live under the patronage of the United States.
Though the text of the letter may sound a bit naïve given the contemporary knowledge of post-war history, according to some witnesses it appropriately sketches the expectations of the Sudeten Germans at that time.
Even though the Czech Germans had to at least suspect that their displacement from the country would be discussed, almost none of them admitted this possibility at all.
Some expected that the United States and Great Britain would negotiate a certain type of autonomy for the Sudetenlands.
Others believed that they would simply remain in Czechoslovakia.
The famous journalist Gustav Chalupa, born in České Budějovice, also confirms this.
As a German from České Budějovice, he was sent to the navy in the Baltic Sea during the war.
When he was captured by the British at the end of the war and placed in a prison camp in Holstein, tens of other Czech Germans went to him so that he would teach them Czech.
"They believed that when they returned home, Czech would come in handy," Chalupa said.
According to him, none of the German prisoners living in Czechoslovakia before the war envisaged being displaced from the republic on the basis of the Beneš Decrees.
You don't think - you pay!
Emotive campaign attacks drivers
The most expensive action aimed at safety on the roads in Czech history.
That's also one way to characterize the emotive media campaign which the Ministry of Transportation plans to launch on Wednesday.
The office of minister Aleš Řebíček hopes that it will discourage drivers from behaving dangerously behind the wheel.
The 150-million-crown campaign will appear on television, on the radio, in cinemas, on the Internet, but also on flyers.
It should discourage drivers from speeding and driving under the influence of alcohol.
And also remind them to fasten their seatbelts before they start driving.
Above all, it aims to reach into the conscience of young drivers, motorcyclists, pedestrians, and last but not least, professional drivers.
And what appears in the spots?
Mainly human stories that attack the emotions.
And even the "bloody" slogan of the whole campaign attests to this:
You don't think - you pay!
The words "you don't think" are written in capital letters on a license plate.
And then the words "you pay" are in a pool of blood.
This is meant to symbolize that a person can pay for a moment of carelessness with his/her own life.
The spots will "haunt" the viewers until 2010.
The ministry found inspiration in similar campaigns in Anglo-Saxon countries, where it is common to find pictures with drastic images of accident victims.
It hopes that the accident rate and the number of deaths on the Czech roads will thus decrease.
The spots were prepared by the agency Euro RSCG.
Sugar and whip for drivers
"The drivers are influenced by the sugar and whip system.
The sugar for them is, for example, when they run a red light, they save time.
The whip is the threat of a fine or an accident.
The drivers must be repeatedly reminded of the risk," says Martin Kořán, a transportation psychologist from Na Homolce Hospital.
And that's why information campaigns in the press and mainly negative advertising are necessary, the psychologist believes.
Less effective in his opinion are the tables which draw the drivers' attention to the danger.
"If a static table which warns against danger is installed, it will likely soon blend in with the surroundings and the drivers will not pay attention to it," Kořán warned.
Olmert would return nearly all occupied territories in exchange for peace
The prime minister of the provisional Israeli government, Ehud Olmert, expressed his opinion in favour of the restitution of practically all territories occupied in 1967, that is, even Transjordan, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, in exchange for peace with the Palestinians and with Syria.
He did this in an interview which was printed by the daily newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth on Monday.
"We must reach an agreement with the Palestinians, which means that it will be necessary to return nearly all of the (occupied) territories, if not all of them," Olmert told the newspaper.
"We will keep a certain percentage of these territories, but we will have to cede a similar percentage (of Israeli territory) to the Palestinians, because there will be no peace if we don't do that," he added.
He admitted that the possible restitution would also include East Jerusalem.
"Whoever wants to be safe in Jerusalem and above all does not want tractors or bulldozers to run over his or her legs, like what happened to one of my best friends, will have to give up a part of Jerusalem," Olmert noted in reference to two attacks in the city in July, during which several people were killed and tens injured.
According to the prime minister, it will be necessary to find a "special solution for the Temple Mount, a sacred and historic place", which lies inside the Old City.
"Whoever will want to maintain Israeli sovereignty over the whole city will have to integrate 270,000 Arabs.
That won't work," he stressed further.
Leaving Golan Heights
Olmert also expressed his opinion in favour of the withdrawal of Israel from the Golan Heights, which according to him is an essential condition for entering into a peace agreement with Syria.
But that would also require certain effort from Damascus.
"I am not proposing to agree on peace with Syria solely on the basis of the withdrawal from the Golan Heights," he warned.
"The Syrians know well what they will have to give up in order to gain the Golan Heights.
They will have to give up their current relationship with Iran; they will have to give up their relationship to the (Shi-ite movement) Hezbollah; they will have to give up the ongoing support they provide to the terrorism of the (Shi-ite movement) Hamas, (the terrorist network) Al-Qaeda and the jihad (holy war) in Iraq," the prime minister specified.
Questions after accident: Are stewards in the bus illegal?
Law doesn't know them, walking in coach bus not permitted
In connection with the tragic accident of a bus of the company Student Agency near Padua, Italy, the question has arisen as to whether stewards and passengers can move around the bus while it is in motion.
"If we would like to strictly and formally uphold the law, the activities of the steward are in conflict with the Traffic Law," says speaker for the Ministry of Transportation Karel Hanzelka.
The accident, during which a twenty-two-year-old stewardess died last week, was evidently caused by the driver of the truck that crossed into the path of the bus.
Unluckily, at that moment, the girl was sitting next to the driver, in the least safe place in the vehicle, even though there are two more seats reserved for her.
However, the bus can crash or brake sharply even when the steward is handing out coffee or newspapers.
The question of whether the bus is equipped with standing room in accordance with its registration plays a role.
If this is not approved in the bus, the passengers must sit.
The Student Agency coach buses do not have standing room; which the head of the company, Radim Jančura, also confirmed for Aktuálně.cz.
"We tried to find a solution to this with the ministry, and initially they did not permit the movement of the passengers.
Eventually they revoked this and we reached the conclusion that the passengers are allowed to go to the toilet if they have their own seat," he conveyed his position.
The law does not know the steward
"There is no straightforward legal interpretation of the steward - no legal enactments deal with this role.
However, nor do any legal enactments prohibit the transporters from providing services.
The Traffic Law only knows the term vehicle conductor; it does not define the rights and responsibilities of that person," speaker Hanzelka added less unambiguously.
The head of the Department of Motor Vehicle Operation of the Ministry of Transportation, Josef Pokorný, on the contrary, said that the law treats this issue sufficiently.
"It depends on whether the bus has standing room permitted in its certification.
That's all there is to it," he says.
Buses are divided into the categories of city bus, where there is standing room and limited maximum speed, inter-city buses with standing room and a higher maximum speed permitted, and coach buses, with no standing room and the highest permitted speed and seats equipped with seat belts.
Like in an airplane, says expert
Jaroslav Hořín, an expert on traffic safety for the National Strategy for Traffic Safety (BESIP), does not see any essential problem in the movement of stewards on the buses.
"During a smooth ride, there is not much threat of danger, the situation can be compared to the service in airplanes.
Even there it is not certain when turbulence will occur and the stewardess can hit her head."
"However, if the bus were to brake sharply, of course, the laws of physics are valid.
Just like in a city bus or a tram.
The transport provider must deal with the safety of the stewards through internal regulations," he says, and he also thinks that from the legal perspective, this issue is unresolved.
Jančura willing to discontinue services
Student Agency is the only bus transport provider to offer the steward service.
It employs nearly two hundred of them.
Even after the accident, the head does not consider their job to be risky.
"But as soon as I gain the impression that the stewards' job is risky, I will discontinue them.
Passengers can get coffee and newspapers when boarding.
It would also save costs," he says.
Alexej Litvin, head of Asiana, which operates a fraction of the bus lines that SA does, explained the absence of stewards in his vehicles as due to safety interests.
"We don't have stewardesses, we've been against it from the very beginning.
Sooner or later it will end in a fatal accident," he told Týden.cz nearly a year ago.
Enormous tragedy occurred
A young stewardess from the Pilsen area, who had worked for the company for two years, died in an accident on the bus line to Naples.
A Slovenian tractor trailer truck likely left the emergency lane without signalling and blocked the path of the bus.
The bus driver tried to avoid it using a sharp manoeuvre, however, the front right part of the bus grazed it.
Jančura rebuffs the claim that the two seats reserved for the stewards' rest had been sold out.
"It is not possible to reserve these seats in the coach buses, they are blocked."
The company plans to sue the driver of the truck.
The agency will not wait for the court verdict to compensate the girl's family, but it expects financial compensation from the guilty party.
Adaptation of the law?
Far away
An adaptation of the law, on which a thirty-member expert group from the Ministry of Transportation has been working for over a year, could bring about the specification of the movement of stewards on board the buses.
"But no concrete conclusion has been reached.
They are not dealing with buses much, it is more the point system, the maximum speed on the highway and the use of cell phones while driving," says expert Hořín.
"The Ministry of Transportation does not consider the activity of the stewards to be something that would threaten the safety of the passengers in any essential way," concludes speaker Hanzelka, adding that the enforcement of safety in buses is under the jurisdiction of the police and the Labor Safety Office.
Duesseldorf Hopes Rest in Frankfurt
In a letter from the WestLB board of directors to the bank's employees, grand talk is not in short supply.
Combining units of the Duesseldorf institution with Frankfurt's Deka Bank, the notice made public on Monday claims, could `create a major capital-market institution of the Sparkassen Finanzgruppe.'
WestLB would contribute to the deal a `bloc of expertise' with sustained earning power, it says.
Generally, the letter suggests, this kind of jointer might provide the pivotal impulse for further concentration in the area of the German state banks, the Landesbanken.
That's what it sounds like when a board of directors wants to demonstrate being on top of things in difficult times.
The flagging WestLB is still exposed to tremendous pressure, after all.
Not just from the EU Commission, but also from the Federal Institute for Financial Services Supervision, which only recently warned the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia that there was an urgent need for a solution.
But talks of some type of jointer between Deka Bank, which savings bank clients are familiar with due to its investment funds, and WestLB have been making the rounds for some time now - even in Frankfurt.
Presenting the report on the first two quarters in late August, Deka Bank head Franz Waas said a fusion between the institute on Mainzer Landstrasse and a Landesbank, such as Hesse and Thuringia's Helaba or WestLB, made little sense to him.
But the administrative board of Deka, which is owned in equal parts by the Landesbanken and the savings banks associations, has asked the board of directors to commence talks with WestLB on joint business ventures.
The possible subject is the capital-market business, or parts of it.
Of course, as sources in the financial community point out, negotiations have only just begun.
It's not the first time that the name Deka Bank - with its staff of 3000 one of the more significant employers in the financial center of Frankfurt - crops up in the context of a savings banks consolidation.
In 2003, a merger of Deka Bank with Landesbank Rhineland-Palatinate and Helaba briefly seemed to be within the realm of possibility.
But in the end, the threesome didn't happen.
As soon as the plans became public, the Hessian state government spoke out against the participation of Helaba.
The two remaining institutions also proved unable to reach an agreement.
Instead, Landesbank Rhineland-Palatinate was bought by Stuttgart's Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.
But deliberations on a jointer between Deka Bank and Landesbanken have continued to rear their heads.
Most recently, Guenther Merl, chairman of the board at Helaba, had quelled considerations of a merger with his institution.
This aside, there seems to be an increasing awareness that a consolidation of the various institutions in the public sector is imperative.
First up, now that the state elections in Bavaria are over, a jointer between BayernLB and the Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg may have become more likely.
For Helaba, that's not necessarily good news.
Should the pressure for more mergers increase, it will by degrees be running out of potential partners.
In the South, it would merely be a junior partner, although it has to date weathered the financial crisis much better than the institutions in Munich and Stuttgart.
A merger with WestLB, in turn, was squashed early this year by the Savings Bank Association of Hesse and Thuringia, which owns 85 percent of Helaba.
Remains only NordLB.
But such geostrategic considerations are only one side of the equation.
On the other stands the question in how far the institutions' different business models are compatible with another.
In June, Merl said that the key issue of finding an appropriate business model to ensure the sustainability of the Landesbanken had not yet been resolved by the German Savings Bank Association.
Ultimately, WestLB might also be split up, although, of course, that's not a solution favored at WestLB.
The letter from its board of directors, accordingly, voices the manifest desire for a `comprehensive solution.'
Quite how this is reconcilable with a jointer between individual units of WestLB and Deka Bank remains to be seen.
Second Weekend at the `Wiesn' Is Known as `Italian Weekend'
For Elena it's the first time, for Luca it's the third or fourth already.
But this time, he brought along his girlfriend Elena, and that changes everything, he says.
Behind them, next to a five-litre keg of Kaiser beer, stands a massively built bearded man who is proving to the approximately 200 Oktoberfest tourists just how deep the sounds are that his throat his capable of producing.
Elena first slaps Luca, then kisses him.
They came to Verona from Bologna.
From here, a parking lot for buses next to the railroad station Puorta Nuova, four buses will depart at 11:45 tonight, `destinazione Monaco, festa della birra.` Estimated time of arrival: 6:30 AM.
Three buses are reserved for Italians mainly, one is exclusively for Brazilians.
In one corner of the parking lot, the South Americans are already singing next to their flag. They were celebrating last night already.
And very loudly, too, says Marco Guarda - too loudly for Italians.
Marco, who wears a long coat with fake fur lining and glasses with broad silver earpieces, owns the buses.
They have been making trips to the Oktoberfest for five years now, three of them this year alone.
They travel at night, spend the day at the `Wiesn' and head back home again at 10:30 PM.
Staying over night would only generate unnecessary costs, Marco says.
The trip is 75 Euros, including a welcoming round of Kaiser beer, brewed according to the Bavarian Purity Law, health insurance, as well as a German-language guide - Marco enrolled in a language course in Frankfurt.
And with no further ado, the buses head out into the night, on the autostrada leading to `Brennero.'
There is no beer to be had yet.
Soon all is quiet in the bus, the travelers are asleep.
As they should be - they are going to need their strength.
They stop in Brixen and in Holzkirchen, where droves of other buses with Italian plates are making a final stop on the Autobahn 8, right before Munich.
When Marco's group finally arrives, as planned, at half past six in the morning at a parking lot near Theresienwiese, about 50 other buses from all over Europe are already there.
Elena, Luca and the others gather. Marco addresses them one last time to give them their marching orders.
First up: Put on the yellow caps.
On the left side, they say `Oktoberfest' in Gothic type, next to the Internet address of Marco's travel agency, "conoscersiviaggiando.it".
Second: `When the doors of the beer tent open, you have to run!' Marco shouts into the morning.
`Run!' Run and man the seats in the rear part of the tent.
`Not in the front, or else we will block the entry. And not all yellow hats at the same tables - spread out in the room!'
It's 8.25 Euros per `Maß,' Marco screams.
And don't forget to tip.
`Show the security people that we behave!
As soon as you abandon your seats, they're gone!'
Third: `Be back here tonight at 10:30 sharp!' Understood?
